---
type: written content
time: 5 minutes
name: 1.4.4 Solution
author: Bethany Kok

---
This is a reference solution for assignment 1.4.4 Drill: Evaluate an experiment analysis.
 
1. Confound: The effect of each slogan is confounded with the person delivering the slogan.  It is not possible to tell if Palpatine’s slogan is better than Vader’s, or if Palpatine is just more persuasive/scarier.
 
2. Simpson’s paradox: The example doesn’t give information the relative sizes of the planets Jar Jar and Windu went to.  Windu’s anger implies that he went to the smaller planets—he persuaded a higher percentage of people on the planets he went to.  Jar Jar had a lower persuasion percentage on the planets he went to, but they were larger planets.  When aggregated, Jar Jar looks more successful because he persuaded more people in absolute terms, even though Windu’s per-planet percentage was higher.
 
3. Simpson’s paradox: By ignoring per-country rates, this report style obscures potential within-country patterns.
 
4. Sampling bias:  First, people who agree to ‘opt in’ may be already more committed to their fitness, or may become more committed because they know their performance is being tracked.  Second, the kind of people who voluntarily download and use a fitness tracking app are probably already disposed to exercise and would be working out even without the app.
 
5. Order effects: Students who arrive early (and get Version A) and students who arrive late (and get Version C) may be different from students who arrive on time (and get Version B) in ways that lead to lower test scores.  Differences in the test scores are due to differences in the students who get each test, not differences in the tests.
 
